---
layout: report
title: Analysis of Hired - The Marketplace Where Tech Companies Compete to Hire You 
Description: Technical, financial, and market analysis of Hired, a Recruiting Startup in San Francisco.
label: hired
---

[Hired](http://hired.com) provides a digital marketplace for technical, vetted job seekers to receive salary bids from companies. We first discovered Hired through engineers that had conducted successful job searches using their marketplace. We conducted research through known sources and [spoke with Co-Founder and CEO Matt Mickiewicz](/mickiewicz-interview/) to conduct an analysis of the company, which sources claim has been profitable since at least October 2013. 

## How it Works

A job seeker applies to Hired using their LinkedIn process. In a process similar to a college application, they submit a resume for review by Hired. 

From these applications, Hired approves a group of candidates to go to an auction. As of writing, these auctions typically consist of 40-50 accepted candidates, and are conducted every week.

Upon being accepted to an auction, a candidate is assigned an account manager who coaches the candidate through the process and assists them with their profile. The candidate’s profile is a thorough resume that describes education background, skills, experiences, and includes links to significant projects and social channels. Candidates may also solicit written professional recommendations, which appear on the profile.

Companies seeking to hire through the Hired marketplace must apply for access. To qualify, they must be venture-funded or publicly-traded. Access to the marketplace gives companies access to the profiles of candidates in the current auction. The system prevents companies from being able to see any of their current or past employees that are seeking employment elsewhere.

There is no cost for job applicants or companies to join the marketplace.

When each auction begins, the new candidates are listed and any employer can visit the site and browse through each candidate profile. If anything on a candidate profile is unclear, the company may anonymously ask a question, which is then added to the profile with the candidate response.

Companies that are interested in hiring a candidate must submit a bid through Hired. According to current marketing materials, 85% of the candidates receive a preliminary offer, which provides information on the company, the role, the salary, and equity terms upfront. The [average salary](http://www.forbes.com/sites/o/2013/10/30/hired-com-has-built-what-every-tech-company-wants-a-pipeline-of-top-technical-talent/) is currently $128,000. These offers are not binding, but according to the CEO of Hired, offered terms are reflective of final negotiated salaries 90% of the time.

For every job offer, candidates are presented with three buttons: “I’m interested,” “Request Revision,” and “Decline.” Candidates who express interest in a role proceed with interviews directly with the company. Final salary negotiations take place after successful interviews.

A candidate who accepts a job offer through the Hired.com system is given a $2,000 bonus directly from Hired. The hiring company then pays a fee to Hired equivalent to 1% of the negotiated final salary every month for the following 24 months. If the candidate stops working at the company, then the company stops its payments to Hired. 

To prevent companies from circumventing the service, Hired offers a bounty of $200 Amazon credit to candidates to report companies that attempt to hire the candidate without first providing an offer though the website. 


